We're gonna move on to our second metric.
And this is the most interesting metric,
probably the largest contentful paint.
So we know how to get
the first bytes out the door.
We can make some some
infrastructure changes and
make sure that we're getting our
bytes out as fast as possible.
But how do we make sure that the bytes
that we're sending in loading the page
are the right ones to get to this point
of completion as soon as possible.
As a reminder, the largest contentful
paint is that time between starts and
when the user sees that most of
the page is ready, or almost ready.
So how do we make sure that
we get to the point get
to the most critical content as
fast as we can in our document.
There's largely three things that
we're going to focus on in order to
improve this.
The first is we're going to look at
all of the resources that come down,
all of the resources that are part
of building our document.
And there's some of them that
maybe we don't need right away.
Maybe some of them aren't needed
until the user does something or
the user scrolls down,
can we defer some of those until later?
The second is images are a big
part of most website sizes.
What can we do to further crunch images
down beyond just applying
dumb compression algorithms.
And third, there's a bunch of overhead
that comes in with most HTTP requests,
how can we cut as much of that overhead
out and still deliver our content?
Okay, let's look at the sequence,
here's a very simplified
version of what we would
see in the performance
panel of Google dev tools.
We'll look at that in a minute but I want
to show the simplified version first so
you get a good understanding.
At the beginning of a request,
the first thing we need to do
is fetch an HTML document.
We need to get the initial
document pull it down and
have the browser parse it apart
to figure out what we need to do.
And as the document is being parsed,
the browser finds other resources
that it needs to pull down.
Like maybe there's a CSS file in the head
of the page and needs to reach out and
start downloading that CSS file.
Oftentimes, that CSS file will then need
other resources like a background image or
a font or an import of another CSS file.
And so that can chain events and
cause cause more time there.
You'll also likely have
images in the file, and
images are going to all come down
as the browser's gonna try and
parallelize this as much as it can and
download all of the images.
But eventually, depending on how
many resources you have the read
the parallelism that the reason
that the browser can do is and
how many things that can download
at once might get saturated.
And some of the images might get deferred
until later when it can open up some time
to download those.
And most applications are going to have
some JavaScript and JavaScript as we know.
Has a lot of things going for it where it
reaches out and pulls down more assets,
it might need to pull down other
JavaScript files, pull in this module,
asynchronously load this asset.
And so
JavaScript will load other JavaScript,
which will then load other JavaScript is
a very common pattern that we would see.
Now if we attach our metrics here,
the first contentful paint happened
right after we brought down that HTML.
So brought down the HTML and we could show
the first inklings of the screen, FCP but
the largest contentful paint is when we're
ready when we have all this other stuff.
And so that might not happen until clearly
on the other side, clear at the end.
We've pulled down our images,
all the JavaScript has run,
all of the CSS has come down, and we
render the rest of the page and the LCP.
And between that is all the things that
we're doing to get to render the page,
to render that first bit
of content that the,
to render the biggest bit of
content that the user seen.
So how do we do that faster?
We do that faster by
doing fewer things there.
How can we reduce the number
of things we're doing and
focus on getting to the user's intended
most important content as fast as we can?
Now, this chart is called a waterfall and
it might look familiar.
This is a very simplified version,
because the Chrome dev tools can
be kind of overwhelming at times.
But if we go back over to our Chrome tab,
and you visit the from your lighthouse
report, you scroll down, there's this
button here called view original trace.
This is gonna open up
the performance tab and
show you all of the things that went
into building that lighthouse report.
The waterfall is,
don't have a whole lot of space here,
there we go,
the waterfall you can see right here
in this network section in the middle.
And so close that out,
hi that, Okay, we can see,
all right, so the waterfall is this thing
happening right here in the middle.
Where we see at the beginning, the initial
HTML document request which then
leads to the CSS files,
it tries to download one CSS file,
which indicates to load another
CSS file and another CSS file.
There's some JavaScript that happens and
then we hit some sort
of parallelism block.
And we have to wait until a bunch
of other images start coming down.
Images after images after images
after images, all kinds of different
things chaining after each other
as different dependencies hit and
different limits get set.
On this chart, we can also see where
the different metrics are happening.
So this metric or this waterfall chart
lines up with these markers below and
so we can see at this point
is document content loaded.
And then the first paint and
the first contentful paint, and
then shortly thereafter
the largest contentful paint.
And then a whole bunch of
other stuff happens and
eventually the load event fires, so
there's still a bunch of stuff happening
on this site, even after LCP happens.
But at LCP,
we think that the page is done.
Now, here's what you can use to
dig into your specific pages and
blow that out, but for
the purpose of our conversation right now,
let's stick with our simplistic viewpoint.
So we're gonna figure out
how to do fewer things here.
So the first way that we can do fewer
things, is to defer resources until later.
Maybe not all of these things need
to be done in order to hit LCP.
What are the only things
that we really need to do?
For example,
maybe a couple of those images aren't
even visible on the first screen.
Maybe they're like way down the page,
the user is not gonna see them right away.
And maybe the JavaScript
doesn't need to be there.
In the case of request metrics,
the JavaScript is optional,
it enhances the page,
it's not required for the page.
So why are we wasting all
this time pulling it down and
executing it, when it's not
actually necessary to get to LCP.
So how do we differ these resources
specifically until later?
Well, there's a couple of ways to do it,
here's a simplistic example of
an HTML page, so in this page,
we have a couple of scripts in the HTML
head, there's a main.js and a banner.js,
and in the body we have a couple
of pictures, picture and picture2.
But, maybe we don't need
all of these right away,
maybe we can defer these
some of these till later.
In the current model, this is what
a waterfall chart would look like we
have all of the resources just on
the page and so as the HTML is parsed,
it starts downloading all of them.
The first JavaScript that comes down and
finishes, goes first, and it executes.
And then once the first
JavaScript file is executed,
the second JavaScript file is executed,
which then allows the images to render.
Because the scripts are just in the head,
they are blocking.
The browser is going to stop and wait for
this JavaScript to come down and
execute before it continues on.
But it doesn't have to be if we don't
need it, we shouldn't execute it and
download it at this face, so
there's a couple of ways we can do that.
The first and
probably most common way is to decorate
the script with an async attribute.
Now async instructs the browser to say,
hey,
download this file when you
want when you can get to it and
then process it, do it later.
But it doesn't quite have
the behavior that we would
expect because the browser's
really eager to get started.
And so even though that first file is
decorated async, the browser says,
okay, I will do that one right now.
Starts looking the second one in
the image, and then it realizes, hey,
I still got plenty of time,
I still got stuff to do.
Let me start download that and
as soon as it starts downloading it,
it commits itself to executing it.
And so once it came down,
it's going to execute it.
The async one, even though the other
one Is not decorated with a sync.
It's purely on the order that
they finish downloading,
which causes unexpected congestion, right?
We haven't actually improved LCP at all,
we've just created like this weird race
condition where we don't know which
JavaScript is going to load first.
With async if the script finishes fast,
it's still going to
block your load events.
So the other annotation that
we can use is called defer.
And this one Is probably
what we should all use, but
seems way less common in the wild.
And the first is telling the browser,
don't load this yet,
you don't need this right now,
do it later.
Defer is essentially saying, hey,
you can download it whenever you want.
If you can parallelize the download fine,
but never execute it until we're done.
And so it goes ahead and it loads
all the different assets it needs.
But even though our first
script loaded first,
the execution is delayed
until after the load event.
It is no longer going to
be a blocking factor for
us and
this led to a small improvement here.
Now there's one more thing that we can
do is we can just change the order that
things happen.
So as the browser is
reading your HTML file,
it's doing things kind of in
the order you wrote them.
And so if you have all of your script tags
and all of your CSS tags in the head of
your document, even though that
semantically kind of makes sense to us,
we're telling the browser hey,
get all these things first.
Start getting these things,
even if you don't necessarily need them.
And so you can take those scripts that you
might not need, like analytics or like,
enhancement kind of things, and you can
put them at the end of your HTML document,
get all the other stuff,
get all the important stuff done first.
Then download the Java scripts.
And what impact does that
have on our waterfall?
Well, now the JavaScript isn't
going to load right away.
It's going to take a little time for the
browser to process all the document and
then it when it gets to the script tags,
it says great, I'll start loading them.
And the first one that is marked defer
is still delayed until after LCP.
The second one without a defer is
executed as soon as it comes down,
leading to another slight
improvement in LCP.
What about these images,
how do we make these images slow down?
Maybe that first picture needs to
be on the page as part of LCP,
it's part of the main content.
But the second one is something down and
down in the body of the document,
we don't want it.
Well, there's an annotation for that
as well, that looks really attractive.
It's called loading and loading can
be lazy, we can tell the browser,
hey, load this thing later load it
when the user could possibly see it,
don't load it right now.
And that seems that seems great,
that seems like exactly what we want,
it's the differ of pictures.
If we were to do that and apply everything
here, we would if you do not load
the second image until the user
happened to scroll down to it and
not bother rendering it right away,
there is no longer a factor to hit LCP.
LCP is basically only constrained with how
fast can we load this image and render it.
The only factor really being considered
because we've pushed everything off and
said, hey, this is low priority,
you don't need to worry about it.